# DMD-Nintendo-Switch-Gaming
Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy is the most common hereditary neuromuscular disease. Mutations in the dystrophin gene lead to progressive muscle fibre degeneration and weakness. This weakness progressively advances to such an extent that affected patients are unable to carry out daily activities and are eventually wheelchair-bound. With limited range of movement, gaming has become an important source of entertainment. However, their capability to utilise conventional gaming controllers decreases and the gaming experience becomes more painful as the disease progresses to later stages. 
The project was aimed to design and manufacture a comfortable, efficient and affordable gaming device for DMD patients at different stages, with a focus on the late stage. We conducted interviews with Duchenne United Gaming, Duchenne Family Support Group and the NHS which provided us with opinions and valuable feedback. This along with further research informed our initial ideas.  
We constructed a Product Specification Document from the feedback and referred to it throughout the design process of our controller. These requirements were based on anthropometric data for adult males, specific user preferences and technical controller requirements.  
A full controller setup was manufactured including a combination of 3D printing and off the shelf products where applicable. A separate model demonstrated working code and electrical components and was combined with the manufactured setup to produce the final controller. 
The casing was designed using SolidWorks and processed using PRUSA slicer for 3D printing. In order to maximise the customizability, most parts of the controller can be disassembled and replaced easily. EAGLE was used to create the initial circuit design, which included the creation of two PCBs. The final electrical assembly was done using strip boards to optimize time and cost. The function of the controller was achieved using 3 Arduinos and Wi-Fi modules, allowing it to have a faster response time, quicker pairing time to the Nintendo switch and wireless connection.
Ultimately, we produced a working prototype based on our specifications that completely emulates a Nintendo Switch Joycon (The controller for Nintendo Switch). 

Imperial College London 2nd Year Bioengineer-designed Nintendo Switch Controller Code
